Availability blocks (#230)
MewsSystems/gitbook-connector-api: operations/services.md

{}
```

## Add availability blocks

Adds availability blocks which are used to group related [Availability update](#availability-update)s. This makes limiting public availability easier and more organized. After creation it can be referenced from [Update availability](#update-service-availability) operation using `AvailabilityBlockId` parameter. They can also be used to group [Reservation](reservations.md#reservation)s.

> 

Reviewer: minor edits for ease of reading:

Adds availability blocks which are used for group-related [Availability update](#availability-update)s. This makes limiting public availability easier and more organized. After creation, it can be referenced from [Update availability](#update-service-availability) operation using `AvailabilityBlockId` parameter. They can also be used for group [Reservation](reservations.md#reservation)s.

            "ReleasedUtc": "2020-10-04T00:00:00Z",
        },
        {
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
            "StartUtc": "2020-11-05T00:00:00Z",
            "EndUtc": "2020-11-06T00:00:00Z",
            "ReleasedUtc": "2020-11-04T00:00:00Z",
        }
    ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |
| `AvailabilityBlocks` | array of [Availability block parameters](#availability-block-parameters) | required, max 1000 items | Availability blocks to be added. |

#### Availability block parameters

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](#service) to assign block to. |
| `StartUtc` | string | required | Start of the interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |
| `EndUtc` | string | required | End of the interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |

> | `ReleasedUtc` | string | required | Date when the [Availability update](#availability-update)s linked to the block will not reduce public availability in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |

Author: Its datetime as we also have on reservation. Also when you will have inside hour adjustments it make even more sense

> | `ReleasedUtc` | string | required | Date when the [Availability update](#availability-update)s linked to the block will not reduce public availability in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |

Reviewer 2: Yep, but then let's update the docs, right now it says just "Date when the"

        },
        {
            "Id": "aaaa654a4a94-4f96-9efc-86da-bd26d8db",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
            "StartUtc": "2020-11-05T00:00:00Z",
            "EndUtc": "2020-11-06T00:00:00Z",
            "ReleasedUtc": "2020-11-04T00:00:00Z",
        }
    ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `AvailabilityBlocks` | array of [Availability blocks](#availability-block) | required | Availability blocks. |

#### Availability block

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `Id` | string | required | Unique identifier of the availability block. |
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](#service) the block is assigned to. |
| `StartUtc` | string | required | Start of the interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |
| `EndUtc` | string | required | End of the interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |
| `ReleasedUtc` | string | required | Date when the [Availability update](#availability-update)s linked to the block will not reduce public availability in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |

## Delete availability blocks

> Delete availability blocks. Only block with no active [Availability update](#availability-update)s and [Reservation](#reservation)s can be deleted

Reviewer: what does "Only block with no active [Availability update](#availability-update)s" mean?

Author: There cant be allocated any availability. -> they have to setup availability for all categories within block to null

Reviewer: ah ok got it. I think then that might need to be specified. Or we can leave it as is, and I'll suggest an update if someone starts asking. 

Would the reverse work? Can you adjust availability on dates that already have an Availability block set?

Author: It sounded to me logical.. we can remove it

### Request

`[PlatformAddress]/api/connector/v1/availabilityBlocks/delete`

```javascript
{
    "ClientToken": "E0D439EE522F44368DC78E1BFB03710C-D24FB11DBE31D4621C4817E028D9E1D",
    "AccessToken": "C66EF7B239D24632943D115EDE9CB810-EA00F8FD8294692C940F6B5A8F9453D",
    "Client": "Sample Client 1.0.0",

>     "AvailabilityBlocks": [

Reviewer 2: Let's turn this just into Ids as I commented in the code PR, forcing partners to provide redundant service ids only because of us doesn't make sense. Service Id is not needed here, we shouldn't require it.

Author: But still somewhere has to be cross checked that you are deleting block from their enterprise not someone other and not from other service if it per service scope

Reviewer 2: Correct, that has to be in the api - you first fetch blocks, load services and then check if you can modify the blocks. Actually, even without checking in API, the privileges should capture this and not allow deleting. But I think we should be checking in API. Just make sure that even without checks, it would fail on privielges.

Author: Well by the implementation we have enterprise and we get its services and by these services we can get blocks so in combination you wont get block because service is not the one from same hotel so it will fail on invalid block id.

Reviewer 2: 👌 so Ids are sufficient here. and in the API we will load all services in the hotel and then load blocks by services and Ids.

    "Client": "Sample Client 1.0.0",
    "AvailabilityBlocks": [
        {
            "Id":"e5a4654a4a94-86da-4f96-9efc-bd26d8db",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94"
        },
        {
            "Id": "aaaa654a4a94-4f96-9efc-86da-bd26d8db",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94"
        }
    ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |
| `AvailabilityBlocks` | array of [Availability block delete parameters](#availability-block-parameters) | required, max 1000 items | Availability blocks to be deleted. |

#### Availability block delete parameters

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `Id` | string | required | Unique identifier of the availability block. |
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](#service). |

### Response

> ```javascript
> {
> }
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```javascript
{}
```
```

{}
```

## Add availability blocks

> Adds availbility blocks which can allocate `unit availability adjustments` from [update availability](#update-service-availability) which are then removed from public availability. also it can group the reservation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adds availability blocks which are used to group related [Availability update](#availability-update)s. This makes limiting public availability easier and more organized. After creation it can be referenced from [Update availability](#update-service-availability) operation using `AvailabilityBlockId` parameter.
```

### Request

`[PlatformAddress]/api/connector/v1/availabilityBlocks/add`

```javascript
{
    "ClientToken": "E0D439EE522F44368DC78E1BFB03710C-D24FB11DBE31D4621C4817E028D9E1D",
    "AccessToken": "C66EF7B239D24632943D115EDE9CB810-EA00F8FD8294692C940F6B5A8F9453D",
    "Client": "Sample Client 1.0.0",
    "AvailabilityBlocks": [
        {
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
            "StartUtc": "2020-10-05T00:00:00Z",
            "EndUtc": "2020-10-06T00:00:00Z",
            "ReleasedUtc": "2020-10-04T00:00:00Z",
        },
        {
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
            "StartUtc": "2020-11-05T00:00:00Z",
            "EndUtc": "2020-11-06T00:00:00Z",
            "ReleasedUtc": "2020-11-04T00:00:00Z",
        }
    ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |

> | `AvailabilityBlocks` | array of [avabilability block parameters](#availability-block-parameters) | required, max 1000 items | Availability blocks. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `AvailabilityBlocks` | array of [Availability block parameters](#availability-block-parameters) | required, max 1000 items | Availability blocks. |
```

#### Availability block parameters

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](#service) to add. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](#service) to assign block to. |
```

| `StartUtc` | string | required | Start of the interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |
| `EndUtc` | string | required | End of the interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |

> | `ReleasedUtc` | string | required | Date when the block allocated `unit count adjustment` will not reduce public availability in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `ReleasedUtc` | string | required | Date when the [Availability update](#availability-update)s linked to the block will not reduce public availability in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |
```

### Response

```javascript
{
    "AvailabilityBlocks": [
        {
            "Id": "e5a4654a4a94-86da-4f96-9efc-bd26d8db",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
            "StartUtc": "2020-10-05T00:00:00Z",
            "EndUtc": "2020-10-06T00:00:00Z",
            "ReleasedUtc": "2020-10-04T00:00:00Z",
        },
        {
            "Id": "aaaa654a4a94-4f96-9efc-86da-bd26d8db",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
            "StartUtc": "2020-11-05T00:00:00Z",
            "EndUtc": "2020-11-06T00:00:00Z",
            "ReleasedUtc": "2020-11-04T00:00:00Z",
        }
    ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `AvailabilityBlocks` | array of [Availability blocks](#availability-block) | required | Availability blocks. |

#### Availability block

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | `Id` | string | required | Unique identifier of the availabilty block. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Id` | string | required | Unique identifier of the availability block. |
```

> | `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](#service) to add. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](#service) the block is assigned to. |
```

| `StartUtc` | string | required | Start of the interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |
| `EndUtc` | string | required | End of the interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |

> | `ReleasedUtc` | string | required | Date when the block allocated `unit count adjustment` will not reduce public availability in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `ReleasedUtc` | string | required | Date when the [Availability update](#availability-update)s linked to the block will not reduce public availability in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. |
```

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Delete availability blocks

> Delete availbility blocks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Delete availability blocks. Only block with no active [Availability update](#availability-update)s can be deleted
```

### Request

`[PlatformAddress]/api/connector/v1/availabilityBlocks/delete`

```javascript
{
    "ClientToken": "E0D439EE522F44368DC78E1BFB03710C-D24FB11DBE31D4621C4817E028D9E1D",
    "AccessToken": "C66EF7B239D24632943D115EDE9CB810-EA00F8FD8294692C940F6B5A8F9453D",
    "Client": "Sample Client 1.0.0",
    "AvailabilityBlocks": [
        {
            "Id":"e5a4654a4a94-86da-4f96-9efc-bd26d8db",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94"
        },
        {
            "Id": "aaaa654a4a94-4f96-9efc-86da-bd26d8db",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94"
        }
    ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |

> | `AvailabilityBlocks` | array of [avabilability block delete parameters](#availability-block-parameters) | required, max 1000 items | Availability blocks. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `AvailabilityBlocks` | array of [Availability block delete parameters](#availability-block-parameters) | required, max 1000 items | Availability blocks to be deleted. |
```

#### Availability block delete parameters

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | `Id` | string | required | Unique identifier of the availabilty block. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Id` | string | required | Unique identifier of the availability block. |
```
